Get to know the UiPath Studio user interface, part 1. Now that we have installed UiPath Studio,
let's begin by opening the application for the first time and have a look at the different elements
and menu options in the start screen.
Start by opening your UiPath application. You can look it up by searching among your other applications,
or for example, like me, pin it to your taskbar and run it from there.
Once you've opened Studio, you are greeted with the "Start" tab. As you can see, there is a sidebar menu
with a few different options.
So let's go through these together, starting with the "Start" tab.
The "Start" tab is where you can open an already existing project or create a new one, either from scratch
or from a predefined template. Let us take a closer look at the different options for starting a new
project.
When starting a new project, we have three different options.
We can start by creating a new blank process, create a reusable component (called a library), or create
our own template. By clicking "process"
you can create a blank project, which is a clean slate in which you can build your project from scratch.
It has no template nor anything predefined in your workspace, which means that you will have to define
everything from scratch yourself in order to build your new automation. For the most part,
this is what we will be doing when building our robot in the following lessons.
We also have the option to create a new "Library". A library is a collection of reusable components,
and a reusable component is a workflow that can be used as an activity across multiple projects, which
gives us the opportunity to define common code only once and reuse it multiple times.
Reuse is a key enabler for improving efficiency, and reuse in code is one of the smartest things you
can do as an RPA developer.
Lastly, we have the option to create our own "Template". Studio offers us the chance to create our own
template that may contain a particular set of dependencies and/or built in workflows with already defined
variables and arguments that can be used to speed up the development of future projects.
If you don't find that a particular template meet your requirements,
building your own might be a great alternative.
Below, we have a set of predefined templates from which we can choose to start a new project.
Project templates are incredibly useful as they speed up the automation design when used as a starting point
for a new project.
Depending on your version of Studio, you might be seeing some or all of the following predefined templates:
We have "Background Process", "Orchestration Process", "Transactional Process", "Trigger Based Attended Automation",
and lastly, "Robotic Enterprise Framework".
The "Background Process" is a template for creating processes that can be run in parallel on the same
robot as long as they don't contain interacting activities, such as clicking on buttons or typing text.
The "Orchestration Process" is a fairly complex template that support service orchestration, human
intervention and long running transactions on unattended robots.
Now, human intervention is something that comes into play when certain processes require human input
to handle exceptions, approvals or validation before proceeding to the next step.
Being able to involve humans when needed and suspending the process, freeing up the robot until the
human task is complete can lead to incredible useful processes.
However, this template is fairly complex and I recommend that you only look at this when you've gained
more experience working with the UiPath platform.
The "Transactional Process" template is a project based on a flowchart optimized for basic automation
processes of a transactional nature.
This means a process that repeats itself as long as certain conditions are met.
"Trigger Based Attended Automation" template is a project tailored to monitor certain triggers, such
as a mouse or keyboard event and start an automation in response to this.
Think of it as creating a macro that triggers in response to a click of your mouse or a button on your
keyboard.
And lastly, we have the "Robotic Enterprise Framework Template".
The "Robotic Enterprise Framework" is a project which handles the basic needs of any business process automation,
like reading and storing configuration files,
retrying transactions that fail, handling exceptions and logging the status of all process transactions -
whether they fail or succeed.
The "Robotic Enterprise Framework" - or "ReFrameWork", as we call it, is created to fit all the development
best practices,
and it is a template that I use for almost all of my own automation projects.
Now, UiPath offers their own tutorials to use this particular framework, and I encourage you to look
into that, but only when you've got more experience working in the UiPath platform.
The next item in the sidebar menu is "Templates".
This is simply an overview of the different templates available to you in a different view,
so let us skip ahead to the next item; "Team".
The "Team" tab provides access to different source control depositories such as GIT, TFS and SVN.
If this is the first time opening UiPath Studio, you might not be seeing the same options as me.
You can enable and disable the different source control options from the "Settings" tab.
The "Tools" tab is where you can install different extensions that enable you to automate across different
web browsers and applications. You also gain access to a few different applications - or apps - that might
become useful as you get more experience working with UiPath.
Moving on to the "Settings" tab. This is where you customize UiPath Studio to your specific needs.
Now let us only look at the settings that are relevant to us as we are starting out with UiPath.
In the "General" tab
you can set the interface language and the theme of Studio;
and of course UiPath comes with a dark theme for those of you that prefer that.
In the "Design" tab, you can change the behavior of Studio such as the frequency of auto backup, the
published project time out (which is the time taken before an activity that fails, throws an exception)
and whether or not to minimize Studio when running processes and much, much more.
You might be revisiting some of these settings when you start working on your own projects to better
fit your needs.
The "Locations" tab is where you can change the default storage location of your automation projects.
By default, all projects will be stored in the UiPath folder located in your documents folder.
And lastly, we have the "Teams" tab, which is where you enable the different source control options,
as mentioned earlier.
Moving on to the last tab, the "Help" tab; this is where you will find useful links, including the project
documentation, a link to the Community Forum, a Help Center, UiPath Academy, Release Notes and so on.
...
And on the right hand side, you will find information about your Studio version and license, your update
channel and system information.
And that's it!
That's what you need to know before opening your first project in UiPath Studio. In the next lesson,
we will create a blank project and have a look at the interface where we will build and automate processes.